To begin, go to `Services > Machine Learning > Amazon SageMaker`. Once on the landing page, you should see a menu bar on the left side of the page. Click `Notebook` and then `Notebook instances`. Now click the orange colored `Create notebook instance`. Give your instance a globally unique name. Under `Notebook instance type` choose a machine type. You can find the full list of instance types [here](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/). Fortunately not all machines are available with SageMaker, so we only have to choose from a few. You can figure out how much your notebook will cost to run using the pricing calculator [here](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/pricing/on-demand/) based on your machine type. As long as the notebook is running (and not stopped) you will be charged per second of use. Leave all other values as default for now. Click `Create notebook instance`. It should take about 10 minutes to spin up, so go brew some coffee and come back. Once the status changes from `Pending` to `InService` then you can connect. It is also a good idea to enable [auto-shutdown](/docs/auto-shutdown-instance.md) on your notebook to prevent leaving it running after you finish.

### Import our training notebook
Now that our instance is `InService` (read running) we can click `Open JupyterLab` on the far right of the screen. Notice that we have a lot of options for creating new notebooks, and we can also open a terminal window. Let's begin by looking at the AWS example notebooks by clicking the bottom icon on the far left that looks like a brain. You will see that most of these are generic data science and ML topics, but there are a few biomedically relevant examples, with several notebooks focused on cancer data. These notebooks are a great way to learn some basic functionality of AWS like ingesting data, training and running ML/AI models, and running R notebooks. You can also explore a variety of more advanced applications. Open a few notebooks and copy them to your workspace to see how that works. After this, you can copy in a custom notebook and some example data. From the base directory, click the git icon on the middle left bar, it kind of looks like the letter 'T' with a tilt. Click `Clone a Repository`, and then paste the address to this repo (from the green box in the top right) into the box.

```
git clone https://github.com/STRIDES/NIHCloudLabAWS.git
```

Now you have the NIHCloudLabAWS directory available. Navigate to NIHCloudLabAWS > tutorials > notebooks > GWAS > GWAS_coat_color.ipynb.
Explore this notebook and see how data moves in and out of the SageMaker environment. You can also manually add files, whether notebooks or data using the up arrow in the top left navigation menu. We can easily switch between different kernels in the top right, whether R or Python or Spark. 

Here's a few tips if you are new to notebooks. The navigation menu in the top left controls the control panel that is the equivalent to your directory structure. The panel above the notebook itself controls the notebook options. Most of these are obvious, but a few you will use often are:
+ the plus sign to add a cell
+ the scissors to cut a cell
+ stop to stop a running process
+ run a cell with the play button or use shift + enter/return. You can also use CMD + Enter, but it will only run the current cell and not move to the next cell. 

Above that menu you will see an option called `Kernel` which is useful if you need to reset the kernel, you can click Kernel > Restart Kernel and Clear All Outputs. This will give you a clean restart. You can also use Kernel > Change Kernel if you need to switch between Kernel environments. Also worth noting that when you run a cell, sometimes it doesn't produce any output, but things are running in the background. If the brackets next to a cell have an * then it is still running. You can also look at the bottom where the kernel is listed (e.g. Python 3 | status) and it will show either Idle or Busy depending on if anything is running or not. 
